---
layout: post
title: Python Game Programming (Pygame)
categories:
- General
---
This is a tutorial for making games with Python. The tutorial assumes that you have some prior knowledge of Python and programming in general. It will take you from the very beginning of making a game, all the way to the end, where you have a completed game.

The first step is getting PyGame. It is a module for Python that makes it easy to make games. You can install it using pip.

Note: In this article I’ll be using Python3, but if you are using the antique Python2, you don’t need to change any code. In fact, the only code difference I’ll make is the print statement.

The next thing that you need to do is create a new file, name it whatever you want (i’ll name it “game_example.py”), and open it with your text editor.

## Why PyGame

Before we get into the actual PyGame code, let’s talk about why you should use PyGame.

First of all, if you want to make games, you should use a game engine. A game engine is a piece of software that provides you with the tools to make games. These tools can be things like a rendering engine (for graphics), or they can be higher level abstractions like state machines and collision detection.

PyGame is not a full-featured game engine like Unity or Unreal Engine 4. But it doesn’t need to be. It’s designed to be simple and easy to use. It takes care of the low-level details for you so that you can focus on making your game.

Another reason to use PyGame is that it’s written in Python. Python is an easy language to learn and has many advantages over other languages when it comes to making games. For example, Python is very concise and readable. This means that your code will be shorter and easier to understand than if you were using another language like C++ or Java. And because Python is an interpreted language, it’s also very easy to test your code without having to recompile your entire project each time you make a change

## Install Pygame

```
pip install pygame                
Collecting pygame                   
  Downloading https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/3e/f5/feabd88a2856ec86166a897b62bfad828bfe7a94a27cbd7ebf07fd
70399/pygame-1.9.4-cp37-cp37m-win_amd64.whl (4.2MB)
    100% |██████████████████████████| 4.2MB 6.6MB/s
Installing collected packages: pygam
Successfully installed pygame-1.9.4 
```

## Simple Example

```python
import pygame
import sys

pygame.init() # Initialize pygame
size = width, height = 320, 240 # Set the window size
screen = pygame.display.set_mode(size) # Display the window

while True: # Dead-loop to make sure the window is always displayed
    for event in pygame.event.get(): # Iterate through all events
        if event.type == pygame.QUIT: # Exit if you click to close the window
            sys.exit()

pygame.quit() # exit pygame
```


